---
layout: post
title: "AtCoder ABC 048"
date: 2022-04-27 22:22:00 +0000
categories: [atcoder, abc]
---
- A: string, get first char
- B: TLE when using brute force. idea: get the number of multiples of x in range of zero to b, i.e. b / x then get the number of multiples of x in range of zero to (a - 1), number multiples of x from 0 to b minus the number of multiples of x from 0 to (a - 1) is the number of multiples of x from a to b
- C: using two variables, cur and pre representing the number of candy read in, and a cnt to record the number of candies eaten. if (cur + pre) we need to do something. case1, pre >= x, cnt += cur + (pre - x), set cur = 0 and pre = x; case 2, pre < x, cnt += (cur + pre) - x then set cur = x - pre
- D: lets try to translate the editorial first. 
let's start with the conclusion first and show how we work our way to get this conclusion. if the XOR of "if the length of s is even", "character at the star of s and the end of s are the same" is true, the player who plays first wins otherwise the player who plays second win.
let's consider the final state of s where it can not be operated. the final s should alternate between two different characters, such as "abababababa...", since according to the rule, no adjacent character can be the same and if there is a third  character exist in the string s then it can be removed e.g. "...abc..." to "...ac..."
The final length of s is not unique (that is s can be reduced to several different final states s's), but the evenness of the final s' is unique (can be inferred using initial state s) 
for the initial state of s, if the first char of s is the same as the end char of s, then the length of final s' is odd, if the first char of s in not the same as the end char of s, then the length of final s' is even. Therefore, we know the odd/even-ness of the inital s and can infer the final s', we can also know the number of rounds played, we can uses these information to find which player wins the game.
